---
layout: default
title: NIP-05 Name Registration
description: Request a Nostr username
---

Users can request usernames in a flexible way, either because the client knows that specific names are available, or because DVMs will respond with suggestions to the user's input.

# Discovery

DVMs may make make a list of domains available by publishing a NIP-89 *application handler* event, including any number of `domain` tags:

```js
{
  "kind": 31990,
  "tags": [
    ["d", <handler-id>],
    ["k", "5950"],
    ["domain", "gyroid.party"],
    ["domain", "spooky.christmas"],
    ["domain", "slime.church"]
  ]
}
```

Clients wishing to discover domains should query for kind `31990` events where the `k` tag is `5950`, and then collect the `domain` tags.

To verify the domain belongs to a DVM, the identity provider MUST assign the root NIP-05 name (`_@<domain>`) to the DVM's pubkey. Clients can then do a NIP-05 lookup to verify domain ownership.

To check if the user's chosen name is available, clients should do a NIP-05 lookup for it before sending a job request.

# Input

Desired NIP-05 username requested by the user.
It MAY include the domain (eg `alex@example.com`) or just the localpart (eg `alex`), depending on the design of the client.

If the input includes a domain, the event SHOULD include a `p` tag of a specific DVM's pubkey.
If only the localpart is included, the client is relying on DVMs to suggest the chosen name on available domains.

```js
[ "i", "<nip05>", "text" ]
```

## Example request (specific domain)

```js
{
  kind: 5950,
  tags: [
    ["i", "alex@slime.church", "text"],
    ["p", "66b4fefa1d29b0be53dbe0012f2d0461b3a03dcdbddd81fad2191261caa2104d"],
  ]
}
```

## Example request (any domain)

```js
{
  kind: 5950,
  tags: [
    ["i", "alex", "text"],
  ]
}
```

# Params

- `relays` - array of relay URLs to be listed in the NIP-05 response.

```js
{
  kind: 5950,
  tags: [
    ["i", "alex", "text"],
    ["param", "relays", "wss://relay.mostr.pub/", "wss://relay.snort.social/"],
  ]
}
```

# Output

The NIP-05 username (with domain, eg `alex@example.com`) that was registered by the DVM for the user.

## Example response

```js
{
  kind: 6950,
  content: "alex@slime.church",
  tags: [
    ["request", "\"{...}\""],
    ["i", "alex@slime.church", "text"],
    ["e", "abcd..."],
    ["p", "ef01..."],
  ],
}
```

# Feedback

The DVM may reject the request due to the name being taken, or it may request payment.
Below are some possible feedback statuses:

- `["status", "error", "Invalid name: !@#$"]`
- `["status", "error", "Name already taken: alex@slime.church"]`
- `["status", "error", "Unsupported domain: google.com"]`
- `["status", "error", "Forbidden user: _"]`
- `["status", "payment-required"]`

Example event:

```js
{
  kind: 7000,
  tags: [
    ["status", "error", "Name already taken: alex@slime.church"],
    ["e", "abcd..."],
    ["p", "ef01..."],
  ]
}
```

The DVM may also suggest different names to the user, using either the same localpart or the same domain (depending on the user's input), or some variation of it.

When the `status` is set to `partial`, the content will be a JSON-encoded array of suggestions:

```js
{
  kind: 7000,
  content: "[\"alex@veganic.tokyo\",\"alex@covfefe.social\",\"alex@gigachad.ceo\"]",
  tags: [
    ["status", "partial"],
    ["e", "abcd..."],
    ["p", "ef01..."]
  ]
}
```

To accept any of these names, the client should send a new kind `5950` job request event with the chosen name.

# Updating relay URLs

If the user has already registered a name, they can request the DVM to update the relay URLs in the NIP-05 response by sending a new kind `5950` job request event with the existing name.

```js
{
  kind: 5950,
  tags: [
    ["i", "alex@slime.church", "text"],
    ["param", "relays", "wss://relay.damus.io/"],
  ]
}
```

The DVM should recognize that the user already owns the name and update the data accordingly, and then respond with a kind `6950` event. The format of events in this flow is no different from the initial registration flow.